Next, we'll describe
aggregation functions.
We have seen the first query before.
Select count(*) simply
translates to a count function.
Now we could also say
db.Drinkers.find.count.
But using count directly
is more straightforward.
Now, let's ask to count the number
of unique addresses for drinkers.
So, we don't care what the address is.
We just care if it exists.
This is accomplished through
the $exists:true expression.
Thus, if an address exists for
a drinker, it will be counted.
Another area where we need to count is
when we have an array valued attribute,
like places.
If we just want the number
of elements in the raw list,
we'll write db.country.findplaces.length
and we'll get six.
However, if we want distinct values, we'll
use distinct instead of find and then
use the length for counting the number
of distinct elements, in this case 4.
Now, MongoDB uses an internal machinery
called the aggregation framework,
which is modeled on the concept
of data processing pipelines.
That means documents enter
a multi-stage pipeline which transforms
the documents at each stage until
it becomes an aggregated result.
Now we have seeing a similar mechanism for
relational data.
The aggregation pipelines starts
by using the aggregate primitive.
The most basic pipeline stages provides
filters that operate like queries and
the document transformations that
modify the form of the output document.
The primary filter operation is $match,
which is followed by a query condition.
In this case, status is A.
And expectedly, the $match operation
produces a smaller number of documents
to be processed at the next stage.
This is usually followed
by the $group operation.
Now this operation needs to know which
attributes should be grouped together.
In the example here cust_id
is the grouping attribute so
it is passed as a parameter
to the $group function.
Now notice the syntax.
_id:$cust_id says that the grouped
data will have an _id attribute,
and its value will be
picked from the cust_id
attribute from the previous
stage of computation.
Thus, the $ before the cust_id
is telling the system that
cust_id is a known variable in
the system and not a constant.
The $group operation also needs a reducer,
which is a function that operates on an
activity to produce an aggregate result.
In this case, the reduce function is sum,
which operates on the amount
attribute from the previous stage.
Like $cust_id, we use $amount to
indicate that it's a variable.
As we saw in the relational case,
data can be partitioned into chunks on
the same machine or on different machines.
These chunks are called chards.
The aggregation pipeline of MongoDB
can operate on a charded collection.
The grouping operation in MongoDB
can accept multiple attributes like
the four shown here.
Also shown is a post grouping directive
to sort on the basis of two attributes.
The first is a computed count
variable in ascending order.
So the one designates the ascending order.
The next sorting attribute is secondary.
That means if two groups have
the same value for count,
then they'll be further sorted
based on the category value.
But this time the order is descending
because of the -1 directive
In course two we have seen Solar,
a text search engine from Apache.
MongoDB has a built in text search engine
which can be invoked through the same
aggregation framework we saw before.
Imagine that MongoDB documents in this
case are really text documents placed in
a collection called articles.
In this case, the $match directive of
the aggregate function must be told
it's going to perform a text
function on the article's corpus.
The actual text function is $search.
We set search terms like "Hillary
Democrat" such that having
either term in a document will
satisfy the search requirement.
As is the case of any text engine,
the results of any search returns
a list of documents, each with a score.
The next task is to tell MongDB to
sort the results based on textScore.
What's the $meta here?
Meta stands for metadata,
that is additional information.
Remember that the aggregation
operations are executed in a pipeline.
Any step in the pipeline can
produce some extra data, or
metadata, for each processed document.
In this example, the metadata
produced by the search function
is a computed attribute called textScore.
So this directive tells the system to pick
up this specific metadata attribute and
use it to populate the score attribute
which would be used for sorting.
Finally, the $project class
does exactly what is expected.
It tells the system to output only
the title of each document and
suppress its id.
The last item in our
discussion of MongoDB is join.
We have seen that join is a vital
operation for data management operations.
Interestingly, MongoDB introduced this
equivalent of join only in version 3.2.
So, the joining in MongoDB also
happens in the aggregation framework.
There are a few ways of
expressing joins in MongoDB.
We show one here that explicitly performs
a join to a function called look up.
We use an example form
the MongoDB documentation.
Now here are two document collections,
order and inventory.
Notice that the item key in
orders has values abc, jkl, etc.
And the sku key in the inventory has
comparable values abc, def, etc.
So these two are joinable by value.
The way to specify this join,
one can use this query.
The db.orders.aggregate
declaration states that orders is
sort of the home, or local collection.
Now in the aggregate, the function
$lookup needs to know what to look up for
each document in orders.
The from attribute specifies the name
of the collection as inventory.
The next two parameters are the local and
foreign matching keys,
which are item and sku, respectively.
The last item, as:,
is a construction part of
the join operation which says how to
structure the match items into the result.
Now before we show you the results,
let's see what should match.
The abc item in order should
match the abc in sku.
Similarly, the jkl item
should match the jkl in sku.
Okay, but there is one more twist.
Here is the actual result.
The first two records show
exactly what we expect.
There is a new field called
inventory-docs in the batching record.
The third record however,
shows something interesting.
Inventory has two records shown here,
what do they match?
Now they match the empty
document in orders because
orders has a document
whose item field is null.
So it matches documents and
inventory where the sku item is also null,
explicitly as in document 5, or
implicitly as in document 6.
This concludes our discussion of
queries in the context of MongoDB.